# Analysis Pipeline for Determining AMR-species Relation in Metagenomic Oxford Nanopore Samples
Chadi Sunario Sakidin, Freek de Kreek

The threat of antimicrobial resistance (AMR) keeps growing worldwide. There is a demand for rapid screening methods to determine AMR genes and in which pathogens they are present. This would be beneficial for surveillance of AMR genes by health organizations, but also for prevention of local AMR outbreaks in hospitals and for optimizing patient treatment, especially when horizontal evolution of AMR genes is involved. In order to achieve this rapid screening, the long reads of Oxford Nanopore Sequencing can be utilized to identify AMR genes as well as species identity. An analysis pipeline was developed using this principle. As a test dataset the ZymoBiomics Standard was sequenced. The dataset quality was increased using NanoFilt and by filtering out human DNA using NanoLyse. The dataset was then used to identify AMR genes by aligning it to the CARD database. To identify species the dataset was also aligned to the FDA-ARGOS database. Aligning was done by using Mmseqs2 for local alignment. Afterwards the two alignments were processed by a list of scripts which also connected the AMR alignments to the species alignments resulting to a third alignment. Afterwards the amount of AMR alignments, species alignments and combined alignments are automatically counted and put into an Excel file with tables and pie-charts visualizing the amount of hits on each species, AMR gene and AMR-species combination. The entire analysis pipeline is automized and could be of interest to any future projects regarding the analysis of AMR-pathogen relations in metagenomic samples.
